So, at this point
we already achieved quite a lot
but there's one thing which is unrealistic
at least in some applications.
Currently, we're always fetching data
when this button is pressed.
Now, in a lot of applications you wanna fetch data
as soon as a certain component loads, right?
If a user visits the webpage
you immediately wanna start fetching data
and currently we're not doing that here.
We're just fetching it on demand when the button is pressed.
Now, to immediately fetch it
we can use another concept we already learned about.
We can use the useEffect hook
because sending this HTTP request is a side effect
which ultimately changes our components state.
And you learned that such side effects
should go into useEffect.
Having them into a functions of course also fine
as long as you don't just call this function
as part of your main component function
because then you could create an infinite loop
where you call this function, it updates the state
the component function re-renders or is re-evaluated
and therefore the function is called again
it updates the state to component function
is called again and so on.
We wanna avoid that and that's how we use
useEffect for that.
UseEffect is great if we have code
that should be executed
as part of the component renders cycle
but maybe not always when the component re-renders.
And therefore here we can add useEffect
and then define our effect function here
either as an arrow function or as a regular function
with the function keyword.
And here in useEffect I can of course
simply call fetch movies handler.
I can simply call this function like this.
So, now this function is still called if I click the button
but in addition also
whenever this component is re-evaluated.
Now, of course, I don't wanna call it
whenever this component is re-evaluated
because that would be this infinite task
which I don't want.
Instead, we add our second argument here
which is this array of dependencies
where we define when this effect function
should be executed again.
It will only execute again
if the dependencies listed here change.
Now, as you can clearly tell
I didn't add any dependencies yet.
So, if I save it like this, this will never run again
except for the very first time the component is loaded.
So, hence if we reload this app
the data is fetched immediately.
It's still fetched again if I click the button
but it's also fetched immediately
when this loads for the first time because of useEffect.
Now, technically we're not executing this
in a clean way, though.
You also learned that it is a good practice
and the best practice to list all dependencies you use
instead of the effect function here
in the dependencies array.
Now, I am referring
to the fetch movies handler function here
that is a dependency of this effect.
So, we should add fetched movies handler
a pointer at this function as a dependency.
Because if this function changes
this effect should be re-executed
and this function could change
if we would be using some external state in here.
We aren't doing that in this example but in other examples
we could be doing that.
So, we definitely wanna list this function
a pointer at this function as a dependency of this effect.
The problem with that is that functions of course
are objects as you learned
and therefore these function will technically change
whenever this component re-renders.
So, we will create an infinite loop
if we added as a dependency.
One solution would be to omit it
because here that would indeed achieve the result we want.
But it could introduce subtle bugs
if our function would be using some external state.
So, the better solution is to use the useCallback hook
and import that from react
and to wrap the fetch movies handler with that.
For this we need to transform it and turn it into a constant
which saves the result of useCallback
which then wraps this function
which is now written as an arrow function here
though we could also use the function keyword like this
and we should add our dependencies array
for useCallback as well
and list any dependencies this function might have.
This function though has no external dependencies.
The fetch API is a global browser API
it's not a dependency and other than that
we are not using anything special in here.
These state updating functions as you learned
don't need to be added as dependencies
because react guarantees that they will never change.
Now, I still changed something which would break the app.
I removed the async keyword.
We need to bring this back here
simply in front of this anonymous arrow function.
Async then any parameters we might be getting
then arrow and then the function body.
Alternatively, we can also write it
in a non-arrow functional way like this if we want to
that both works and there is no difference here.
I will go back to the slightly shorter Syntex though.
So, now we ensure that this fetch movie's handler function
is not recreated unnecessarily.
So, if you save that it now crashes though
because the order is now wrong with the function keyword.
It was no problem because of hoisting
now, since this is a const calling it
before this code has been passed won't work.
So, we simply need to move this use effect call
after this function definition
and now it will work again.
And as it works as before without an infinite loop
and we still can also reload manually.
So, that's how we can leverage use of fact to make sure
that we send a HTTP request immediately
when a component loads and not just when a button is clicked
then we still can also do that
and you also learned how to use effect correctly then
and how to ensure that it will really always run
when it needs to run but not when it does not need to run.